you go through things as a vegan whether
it's seeing actual animals getting
slaughtered or seeing you know a bowl of
ground beef seeing the abstract final
product of that industry he go through
things that make you want to cry but you
go through things that make you want to
change the world make the world a better
place to and in some ways it's a
beautiful thing it's a wonderful thing
to have something meaningful in your
life something that matters to you
enough that it makes you want to cry
that it makes you want to change the
world for the better that it motivates
you in small ways day by day change your
lifestyle and maybe in big ways long
term try to change the world around you
I wish I could say that what we preach
with veganism is that we can make the
world a better place but a lot of the
time all that we're preaching is that
you can choose to wake up and recognize
how terrible the world really is you can
choose to confront and admit to yourself
something horrific that's ongoing around
you all the time just at a site just out
of mind that's part of the fabric of the
society and the culture we live in it's
a fundamental aspect of the economy on
going day by day at all times you can
choose to see the reality of that
instead of sleepwalking that's an
incredibly bleak message to carry with
you and try to share with others no
matter how positive spin you put on it
and I have this contrast in my life as a
result of my micro Fame you know my fame
to a few hundred for those between the
bleakness that day-to-day experience
that short term in that long term
struggle
and the weird mix of adulation just
extreme emotions that people have toward
me on the Internet so yesterday I had a
somewhat depressing experience that will
be common to a lot of vegans many of you
will experience this in your home
country or when traveling in foreign
countries we're about to describe its
you know I'm sure many of you will
relate to when both the described but
when I got home from that experience I
turned on the internet and in a certain
forum not going to on on you now I have
their work maybe a hundred people
talking about me I didn't check the
number and you know as soon as I turned
on that forum it lists that I'm present
and everyone there kind of squeals with
delight and says oh it's about with yell
or oh it's izel they act like I'm famous
the act like it's hard to find me and
that doesn't give me any ego trip
whatsoever you know it leaves me cold
and it's especially strange especially
difficult to deal with and the other
context i'm alluding to that every day
i'm just in a struggle to feed myself
and in every day i'm dealing with the
horror with the spectacle of you know
what the meat dairy industry is whether
or not i really see that directly or
encounter it symbolically now in the
form of the final product it's on offer
all around you in a society like this
day by day so yesterday i had already
spent several hours preparing and
uploading videos onto youtube and i
didn't want to put more hours into it i
walked i was going on route to a
particular shop where my teacher told me
they would have Europeans that wed they
would have french bread and that this
bread would therefore not have
derry would not have eggs that be able
to get vegan bread there it's hard to do
here in China because they believe that
in terms of making it worth your money
and making it healthy making an
appealing they should always be pumping
as much the eggs and dairy into bread
products as possible so I'm a way to
this shop where i think i can get bread
that's vegan that happens to be vegan
taking a route i don't normally take
passed by a shop that sells different
traditional Chinese snacks bout such
outs a steamed bun steamed dumplings
that kind of thing I'm looking at the
menu and every single item on the menu
has the Chinese symbol for meet
somewhere in the name so I assume
there's nothing remotely vegan but of
course there can be a strike up
conversation with the woman behind the
counter and she's not just professional
to me she's really nice really friendly
and she absolutely insists they do have
a vegan option in the menu type of jalsa
and you know she packages this up she
wants to sell it to me and I ask all the
right questions are you sure it doesn't
have egg are you sure it doesn't have
pork fat as an ingredient etc etc and
I'm just walking to the other place
we're going to try to buy bread it's not
a big deal but if this is a vegan option
in my area I'm interested nobody and she
actually folds up she asked because you
say oh so you know why did you decide to
become vegan the soul talked about in
Chinese and they give her an answer said
you know when you spend money on animal
products you're paying the harm animals
your pain to kill animals give her this
kind of answer in Chinese because bag
steamed dumplings
walking in the street open up one of the
dumplings can't see the meat I can't
smell the meat I really take the time
I'm really getting my nose into it i'm
really looking at it as closely as I
possibly can there's no way I can see or
smell any meat pneus and even then when
I put it into my mouth you know I'm
nowhere near swallowing it I just start
to chew on it a little bit have this in
my mouth I can taste the meat the
texture of animal fat unmistakable even
though it's been so many years since
I've eaten me you know I can feel in my
mouth and I spit it out I throw the rest
in the garbage and you know as I'm
walking the rest of the way to try to
buy the bread I'm spitting and spitting
because I didn't swallow any of it but
still there little bits in your teeth
it's that classic Chinese thing it's
that absolutely standard Chinese thing
of you know the whole dumpling really is
made out of me but it's fine diced meat
if I had to guess I would guess that it
contained both pork and chicken mixed in
with little bits of green vegetables you
know I walk the rest of the way to the
shop where I thought they might have
bread that I could possibly consume uh
when I get there
um I look at every package bread every
every whatever you wanna say bag of
bread they have stickers on them and you
know in Chinese I'm scanning them and
I'm finding the symbol for the Chinese
language so I'm finding the symbols for
bread certifying the symbols for for egg
milk etc on every single loaf of bread I
asked one of the members of staff yeah
do you think you have a single loaf of
bread here that doesn't have um a
Gannett that doesn't have yeah just
asked building and the woman worked like
on me they'll have been disappointed
walking into that shop and getting to
the bread session getting out again took
maybe 20 minutes leave i'm coming back
down the street and I know I'm gonna
pass the shop again that just put meat
in my mouth you know what I mean um and
I'm thinking through the different
possibilities maybe they're going to be
nice about it maybe thing to be angry at
me maybe it's gonna escalate knew this
going to be confrontation I talked to a
woman at the front but there was a guy
in the back who was up as the boss when
I paid with a big bill she had to go to
that guy to the boss in the back he
handled the money change maybe he's
going to come down and get my face or
something go up to her I explained in
Chinese you lied to me maybe you didn't
know that you lied to me but already
when I say that to her I can see in her
face she did know but this is made of
meat Chinese I said this is made of me
this uses me this has me this is meat
maybe you didn't know but if you did
know you lied to me and he's going to
lie to vegan people this way and say
that this doesn't contain me when it
does you know you're gonna have a
problem and it's telling you what
Chinese culture that I didn't raise my
voice at all I was speaking in a very
calm low voice but very other civil it
was saying was very serious and not only
could she tell it was serious treated
seriously but her boss who was in the
office in the back I assume he was the
manager or some of that he came out of
his office and came down and just by the
expression on his face um I didn't think
he was going to gain me he seemed he
just seemed like he wanted to be helpful
he could tell there was a problem but I
remember thinking I'm gonna leave now
because even it's just a possibility
this is going to get aggravated I don't
wanna I don't want to get into a
fistfight in this restaurant over meat
dumplings you know
and again just physically the sense of
revulsion universe I spat and spat out
there trying to clean out your teeth any
traces of it but it lingers on a long
walk home and I remember because I you
know taking out of my mouth so quickly
also i had some of the feeling of my
fingers and obviously i said the texture
of animal fat in your mouth it's very
different from vegetable fat but I said
it's the first time I left when I really
felt the difference all my fingers when
it felt different the remnants of it on
my hand on the walk home and you know
just today so that was yesterday's today
I had to yell at the director of this
school on the telephone because I
actually couldn't get any food today I
didn't have any lunch and my dinner was
a joke and the director of the school is
vegan she's an ethical vegan she's an
ethical and religious vegan she's a
Buddhist vegan so I know she sympathized
me I know I've talked to her before
it's not you know the feeling of the fat
in your fingers it's not the taste of
the fat my mouth it's the way this
connects to being part of a whole
society and whole civilization that just
doesn't care it's what it represents
it's the thousands of unseen animals
that every day are getting killed and
that are going to be replaced tomorrow
day after day after day because that one
stand is going to keep on selling meat
dumplings and the shop next to is going
to keep selling barbecue and what have
you and in this society in kunming the
fact that there is no alternative the
fact that I do actually have to go
hungry the fact that I do have to show
that the director of the school the fact
that I have to take it that far again
both are kind of conflict it's just hard
it's hard and it's disheartening and
like I say I wish I was delivering a
positive message to people the way
religious figures do or what have you
but the main message you have to share
with people isn't that we can make the
world a better place it's just that we
can wake up and recognize how terrible
place the world already is and then I
have to come home and turn on the
internet and I contrast that to the
strange Glee of these people who are
manufacturing drama out of my life who
are making up lies and stories about me
and we seem to be so entertained seem to
be so delighted to lie about my divorce
about my career about my education about
my private life with myself to make up
lies and defamation with me they're
getting so much joy to that and you know
like I said at the beginning
it's wonderful to have something so
meaningful in your life that can make
you cry that it can make you laugh that
can motivate you day after day
but the main way I experience veganism
is exactly this terrible burden and you
know even in that moment even when
someone asked me you know his woman
selling me these meat dumplings and
lying to my face and saying that they're
vegan when she asked me you know why are
you vegan me she on the level of
language she understood exactly what i
said when i gave her the answer but of
course there's also a level on which
she'll never understand and she'll never
understand the gulf between me and her
and the the really nvidia sense of
separation between me and the other
people in this little society in this
school you know
and I guess I mean I guess that said
thing I do value the Chi value the fact
that I'm not alone I said to another
vegan on the internet just a few days
ago he was lamenting how terrible the
situation was within the vegan seen
within the vegans so-called community
did shield econtent lon and I said back
to him look man I know what it's like to
be loved I know what it's like to be
hated I know what it's like to be alone
I'm not alone and I am grateful to the
Internet despite the fact that I live in
these strange circumstances I had to
move from Canada to China I moved from
Taiwan to Canada to China I used to live
in Cambodia I've had to move again and
again it's really helped me live a life
where I'm much less alone I am grateful
for that i really appreciate that i do
but when I look to the internet for
people who can sympathize with that
struggle yes the political struggle the
aspiration made the world a better place
the aspiration to actually make progress
on these issues politically just getting
organized activism advocacy lobbying
government for change or even public
education outreach dietary advice etc
etc etc it's really strange to have
people leering back at you laughing and
treating you as for treating me as
famous not because of what I have to say
about about the message you put a gizmo
but because of these lies be told of my
sex life my private life because of the
so-called drama you know in history it's
weird so we are contrast and just when I
sat down yesterday coming right back in
from that experience of having someone
lied to me and it would meet being in my
mouth briefly spitting it out some
and then seeing that seeing those people
delighted to see my name pop up on the
internet and treating me as his famous
some of us are actually motivated but
wanting to address the underlying issues
here some of us are not trying to get
famous or not trying to make money are
not trying to get laid some of us in
some small way actually want to change
the world even if it's just so that we
have the satisfaction of knowing that
we're not suffering for nothing you know
gotta say in all those ways like big and
small you know even just yesterday and
today struggle to eat stroll to live
without making those compromises stroll
to communicate with other people live in
a society that society that despises you
despises me and my values it makes no
place for you the Chumphon you know
it's hard it's hard and it's lonesome
and not in a shell away and I know
that's that's why I come on the internet
I guess at least I can say that I know
what it's like to be loved I know what
it's like to be hated I know what it's
like to be alone